README.md, before:

# Nat Instance Module

This Terraform module provisions an Amazon Autoscaling group with an EC2 instance running iptables and squid proxy, allowing for a low-cost alternative to a NAT gateway whilst also providing filtering for outbound http/https traffic.

## Overview

The module creates:
- An Autoscaling group to maintain EC2 instances in a running state
- A Lambda function to perform various actions in response to metric alarms, S3 triggers and to perform updates to the private route table(s)
- An S3 trigger to detect changes to squid configuration files
- A cloud-init template to configure iptables, squid and Cloudwatch agent on the EC2 instances
- Cloudwatch log groups for the squid proxy cache and access logs, and Lambda invocation logs

The running instances can be accessed via SSM for debugging purposes.

## Usage with Terraform

```hcl
module "nat-instance" {
  source = "git@github.com:<org>/nat-instance.git?ref=v2.3.1"

  additional_egress_rules = {
    mongodb = {
      cidr_ipv4   = "0.0.0.0/0"
      description = "Allow MongoDB connections"
      ip_protocol = "tcp"
      from_port   = 27016
      to_port     = 27017
    }
  }
  allowed_web_domains = [
    ".amazonaws.com",
    "api.sendgrid.com",
  ]
  enable_eip         = true
  name               = "myapp-test-nat"
  private_subnet_ids = ["subnet-10a214dfcd63a97a4", "subnet-c727b18850685046b"]
  public_subnet_ids  = ["subnet-37f911e98a8616eee", "subnet-233bfad11fdd81dfd"]
  vpc_id             = "vpc-1eb7bfbe312f068e1"
}
```

## Notes

- Instance AMI will not be updated automatically (ignored in lifecycle)

<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->


## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_additional_egress_rules"></a> [additional\_egress\_rules](#input\_additional\_egress\_rules) | Additional egress rules to apply to the security group. | <pre>map(object({<br/>    cidr_ipv4   = string<br/>    description = optional(string, null)<br/>    ip_protocol = string<br/>    from_port   = number<br/>    to_port     = number<br/>  }))</pre> | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_additional_ingress_rules"></a> [additional\_ingress\_rules](#input\_additional\_ingress\_rules) | Additional ingress rules to apply to the security group. | <pre>map(object({<br/>    cidr_ipv4   = string<br/>    description = optional(string, null)<br/>    ip_protocol = string<br/>    from_port   = number<br/>    to_port     = number<br/>  }))</pre> | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_allowed_web_domains"></a> [allowed\_web\_domains](#input\_allowed\_web\_domains) | List of allowed domains. | `list(string)` | <pre>[<br/>  ".amazonaws.com",<br/>  ".amazon.com"<br/>]</pre> | no |
| <a name="input_architectures"></a> [architectures](#input\_architectures) | Lambda function architecture. | `list(string)` | <pre>[<br/>  "arm64"<br/>]</pre> | no |
| <a name="input_detailed_monitoring"></a> [detailed\_monitoring](#input\_detailed\_monitoring) | Whether or not to enable detailed monitoring for the EC2 instance. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_enable_eip"></a> [enable\_eip](#input\_enable\_eip) | Whether or not to enable a consistent elastic IP for the EC2 instances. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_instance_type"></a> [instance\_type](#input\_instance\_type) | The instance type to use for the ASG. | `string` | `"t4g.small"` | no |
| <a name="input_name"></a> [name](#input\_name) | The name to use for resources. | `string` | `"nat"` | no |
| <a name="input_private_subnet_ids"></a> [private\_subnet\_ids](#input\_private\_subnet\_ids) | List of private subnet ID's in the VPC. | `list(string)` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_public_subnet_ids"></a> [public\_subnet\_ids](#input\_public\_subnet\_ids) | List of public subnet ID's to deploy the ASG to. | `list(string)` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_tags"></a> [tags](#input\_tags) | Tags to apply to the resources. | `map(string)` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_vpc_id"></a> [vpc\_id](#input\_vpc\_id) | The ID of the VPC to deploy the NAT instance/squid proxy to. | `string` | n/a | yes |
## Modules

| Name | Source | Version |
|------|--------|---------|
| <a name="module_config_bucket"></a> [config\_bucket](#module\_config\_bucket) | terraform-aws-modules/s3-bucket/aws | ~> 5.0 |
| <a name="module_squid_config"></a> [squid\_config](#module\_squid\_config) | terraform-aws-modules/s3-bucket/aws//modules/object | ~> 5.0 |
| <a name="module_whitelist"></a> [whitelist](#module\_whitelist) | terraform-aws-modules/s3-bucket/aws//modules/object | ~> 5.0 |
## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_public_ip"></a> [public\_ip](#output\_public\_ip) | n/a |
## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_archive"></a> [archive](#provider\_archive) | n/a |
| <a name="provider_aws"></a> [aws](#provider\_aws) | ~> 6.0 |
## Requirements

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) | >= 1.8 |
| <a name="requirement_aws"></a> [aws](#requirement\_aws) | ~> 6.0 |
| <a name="requirement_random"></a> [random](#requirement\_random) | ~> 3.6 |
| <a name="requirement_time"></a> [time](#requirement\_time) | 0.13.1 |
## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [aws_autoscaling_group.nat](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/autoscaling_group) | resource |
| [aws_cloudwatch_log_group.access](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/cloudwatch_log_group) | resource |
| [aws_cloudwatch_log_group.cache](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/cloudwatch_log_group) | resource |
| [aws_cloudwatch_log_group.iptables](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/cloudwatch_log_group) | resource |
| [aws_cloudwatch_log_group.lambda](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/cloudwatch_log_group) | resource |
| [aws_cloudwatch_metric_alarm.squid](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/cloudwatch_metric_alarm) | resource |
| [aws_eip.nat](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/eip) | resource |
| [aws_iam_instance_profile.instance](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_instance_profile) | resource |
| [aws_iam_policy.instance](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_policy) | resource |
| [aws_iam_policy.lambda](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_policy) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role.asg_lifecycle](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role.instance](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role.lambda](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy.asg_lifecycle](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.cloudwatch](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy_attachment) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.custom](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy_attachment) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.lambda_custom](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy_attachment) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.lambda_managed](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy_attachment) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.ssm](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy_attachment) | resource |
| [aws_lambda_function.nat](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lambda_function) | resource |
| [aws_lambda_permission.alarm_sns](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lambda_permission) | resource |
| [aws_lambda_permission.lifecycle_sns](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lambda_permission) | resource |
| [aws_lambda_permission.s3_trigger](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lambda_permission) | resource |
| [aws_launch_template.nat](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/launch_template) | resource |
| [aws_s3_bucket_notification.bucket_notification](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/s3_bucket_notification) | resource |
| [aws_security_group.instance](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group) | resource |
| [aws_sns_topic.alarm](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/sns_topic) | resource |
| [aws_sns_topic.asg_lifecycle](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/sns_topic) | resource |
| [aws_sns_topic_subscription.lambda](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/sns_topic_subscription) | resource |
| [aws_sns_topic_subscription.lambda_sub](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/sns_topic_subscription) | resource |
| [aws_sqs_queue.dlq](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/sqs_queue) | resource |
| [aws_vpc_security_group_egress_rule.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/vpc_security_group_egress_rule) | resource |
| [aws_vpc_security_group_ingress_rule.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/vpc_security_group_ingress_rule) | resource |
| [archive_file.lambda_source_code](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/archive/latest/docs/data-sources/file) | data source |
| [aws_ami.amazon_linux_2](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ami) | data source |
| [aws_caller_identity.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/caller_identity) | data source |
| [aws_ec2_instance_type.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ec2_instance_type) | data source |
| [aws_iam_policy_document.instance](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/iam_policy_document) | data source |
| [aws_iam_policy_document.lambda](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/iam_policy_document) | data source |
| [aws_region.current](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/region) | data source |
| [aws_route_table.private](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/route_table) | data source |
| [aws_subnet.private](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/subnet) | data source |
| [aws_vpc.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/vpc) | data source |
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->

Commit message:

feat: add support for enabling spot instances in ASG configuration (#15)

README.md, after:

# Nat Instance Module

This Terraform module provisions an Amazon Autoscaling group with an EC2 instance running iptables and squid proxy, allowing for a low-cost alternative to a NAT gateway whilst also providing filtering for outbound http/https traffic.

## Overview

The module creates:
- An Autoscaling group to maintain EC2 instances in a running state
- A Lambda function to perform various actions in response to metric alarms, S3 triggers and to perform updates to the private route table(s)
- An S3 trigger to detect changes to squid configuration files
- A cloud-init template to configure iptables, squid and Cloudwatch agent on the EC2 instances
- Cloudwatch log groups for the squid proxy cache and access logs, and Lambda invocation logs

The running instances can be accessed via SSM for debugging purposes.

## Usage with Terraform

```hcl
module "nat-instance" {
  source = "git@github.com:<org>/nat-instance.git?ref=v2.3.1"

  additional_egress_rules = {
    mongodb = {
      cidr_ipv4   = "0.0.0.0/0"
      description = "Allow MongoDB connections"
      ip_protocol = "tcp"
      from_port   = 27016
      to_port     = 27017
    }
  }
  allowed_web_domains = [
    ".amazonaws.com",
    "api.sendgrid.com",
  ]
  enable_eip         = true
  name               = "myapp-test-nat"
  private_subnet_ids = ["subnet-10a214dfcd63a97a4", "subnet-c727b18850685046b"]
  public_subnet_ids  = ["subnet-37f911e98a8616eee", "subnet-233bfad11fdd81dfd"]
  vpc_id             = "vpc-1eb7bfbe312f068e1"
}
```

## Notes

- Instance AMI will not be updated automatically (ignored in lifecycle)

<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->


## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_additional_egress_rules"></a> [additional\_egress\_rules](#input\_additional\_egress\_rules) | Additional egress rules to apply to the security group. | <pre>map(object({<br/>    cidr_ipv4   = string<br/>    description = optional(string, null)<br/>    ip_protocol = string<br/>    from_port   = number<br/>    to_port     = number<br/>  }))</pre> | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_additional_ingress_rules"></a> [additional\_ingress\_rules](#input\_additional\_ingress\_rules) | Additional ingress rules to apply to the security group. | <pre>map(object({<br/>    cidr_ipv4   = string<br/>    description = optional(string, null)<br/>    ip_protocol = string<br/>    from_port   = number<br/>    to_port     = number<br/>  }))</pre> | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_allowed_web_domains"></a> [allowed\_web\_domains](#input\_allowed\_web\_domains) | List of allowed domains. | `list(string)` | <pre>[<br/>  ".amazonaws.com",<br/>  ".amazon.com"<br/>]</pre> | no |
| <a name="input_architectures"></a> [architectures](#input\_architectures) | Lambda function architecture. | `list(string)` | <pre>[<br/>  "arm64"<br/>]</pre> | no |
| <a name="input_detailed_monitoring"></a> [detailed\_monitoring](#input\_detailed\_monitoring) | Whether or not to enable detailed monitoring for the EC2 instance. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_enable_eip"></a> [enable\_eip](#input\_enable\_eip) | Whether or not to enable a consistent elastic IP for the EC2 instances. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_enable_spot_instance"></a> [enable\_spot\_instance](#input\_enable\_spot\_instance) | Whether or not to use spot instances for the ASG. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_instance_type"></a> [instance\_type](#input\_instance\_type) | The instance type to use for the ASG. | `string` | `"t4g.small"` | no |
| <a name="input_name"></a> [name](#input\_name) | The name to use for resources. | `string` | `"nat"` | no |
| <a name="input_private_subnet_ids"></a> [private\_subnet\_ids](#input\_private\_subnet\_ids) | List of private subnet ID's in the VPC. | `list(string)` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_public_subnet_ids"></a> [public\_subnet\_ids](#input\_public\_subnet\_ids) | List of public subnet ID's to deploy the ASG to. | `list(string)` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_tags"></a> [tags](#input\_tags) | Tags to apply to the resources. | `map(string)` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_vpc_id"></a> [vpc\_id](#input\_vpc\_id) | The ID of the VPC to deploy the NAT instance/squid proxy to. | `string` | n/a | yes |
## Modules

| Name | Source | Version |
|------|--------|---------|
| <a name="module_config_bucket"></a> [config\_bucket](#module\_config\_bucket) | terraform-aws-modules/s3-bucket/aws | ~> 5.0 |
| <a name="module_squid_config"></a> [squid\_config](#module\_squid\_config) | terraform-aws-modules/s3-bucket/aws//modules/object | ~> 5.0 |
| <a name="module_whitelist"></a> [whitelist](#module\_whitelist) | terraform-aws-modules/s3-bucket/aws//modules/object | ~> 5.0 |
## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_public_ip"></a> [public\_ip](#output\_public\_ip) | n/a |
## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_archive"></a> [archive](#provider\_archive) | n/a |
| <a name="provider_aws"></a> [aws](#provider\_aws) | ~> 6.0 |
## Requirements

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) | >= 1.8 |
| <a name="requirement_aws"></a> [aws](#requirement\_aws) | ~> 6.0 |
| <a name="requirement_random"></a> [random](#requirement\_random) | ~> 3.6 |
| <a name="requirement_time"></a> [time](#requirement\_time) | 0.13.1 |
## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [aws_autoscaling_group.nat](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/autoscaling_group) | resource |
| [aws_cloudwatch_log_group.access](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/cloudwatch_log_group) | resource |
| [aws_cloudwatch_log_group.cache](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/cloudwatch_log_group) | resource |
| [aws_cloudwatch_log_group.iptables](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/cloudwatch_log_group) | resource |
| [aws_cloudwatch_log_group.lambda](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/cloudwatch_log_group) | resource |
| [aws_cloudwatch_metric_alarm.squid](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/cloudwatch_metric_alarm) | resource |
| [aws_eip.nat](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/eip) | resource |
| [aws_iam_instance_profile.instance](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_instance_profile) | resource |
| [aws_iam_policy.instance](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_policy) | resource |
| [aws_iam_policy.lambda](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_policy) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role.asg_lifecycle](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role.instance](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role.lambda](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy.asg_lifecycle](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.cloudwatch](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy_attachment) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.custom](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy_attachment) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.lambda_custom](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy_attachment) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.lambda_managed](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy_attachment) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.ssm](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy_attachment) | resource |
| [aws_lambda_function.nat](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lambda_function) | resource |
| [aws_lambda_permission.alarm_sns](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lambda_permission) | resource |
| [aws_lambda_permission.lifecycle_sns](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lambda_permission) | resource |
| [aws_lambda_permission.s3_trigger](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lambda_permission) | resource |
| [aws_launch_template.nat](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/launch_template) | resource |
| [aws_s3_bucket_notification.bucket_notification](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/s3_bucket_notification) | resource |
| [aws_security_group.instance](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group) | resource |
| [aws_sns_topic.alarm](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/sns_topic) | resource |
| [aws_sns_topic.asg_lifecycle](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/sns_topic) | resource |
| [aws_sns_topic_subscription.lambda](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/sns_topic_subscription) | resource |
| [aws_sns_topic_subscription.lambda_sub](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/sns_topic_subscription) | resource |
| [aws_sqs_queue.dlq](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/sqs_queue) | resource |
| [aws_vpc_security_group_egress_rule.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/vpc_security_group_egress_rule) | resource |
| [aws_vpc_security_group_ingress_rule.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/vpc_security_group_ingress_rule) | resource |
| [archive_file.lambda_source_code](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/archive/latest/docs/data-sources/file) | data source |
| [aws_ami.amazon_linux_2](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ami) | data source |
| [aws_caller_identity.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/caller_identity) | data source |
| [aws_ec2_instance_type.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ec2_instance_type) | data source |
| [aws_iam_policy_document.instance](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/iam_policy_document) | data source |
| [aws_iam_policy_document.lambda](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/iam_policy_document) | data source |
| [aws_region.current](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/region) | data source |
| [aws_route_table.private](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/route_table) | data source |
| [aws_subnet.private](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/subnet) | data source |
| [aws_vpc.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/vpc) | data source |
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->
